docs/BLOOM-FILTER-COMMANDS.md, before:

# `Bloom Filter` Commands
You can execute Bloom Filter commands in two ways:

**With RedisBloomClient**

First, you need to create a RedisBloomClient from RedisBloomFactory, and then execute the command from the client. 
You need to specify the name of the filter, as key param, in each command. You can execute BloomFilter commands on 
different filters (keys) using RedisBloomClient. All BloomFilter commands signatures in RedisBloomClient are prefixed 
with `bloomFilter`, like `bloomFilterAdd` or `bloomFilterMultiExists`.

```
$factory = new RedisBloomFactory();
$client = $factory->createClient();
$client->bloomFilterAdd('filter-key', 'item');
```

**With BloomFilter class**

You can create a BloomFilter object by instantiating it from RedisBloomFactory and then execute all BloomFilter commands
over one filter which is specified as key param when you create the BloomFilter object.

```
$factory = new RedisBloomFactory();
$bloomFilter = $factory->createBloomFilter('filter-key');
$bloomFilter->add('item');
```

Both RedisBloomClient and BloomFilter object can be configured with a specific connection to Redis when they are created by providing
a configuration array to `RedisBloomFactory::createClient(array $config)` or 
`RedisBloomFactory::createBloomFilter(string $filterName, array $config)`, even you can provide a configuration array to
RedisBloomFactory, `RedisBloomFactory(array $config)`, and all clients and BloomFilter objects created by the factory 
will be using that configuration. Please take a look at `examples/factory.php` to know how to provide configuration options.

## Commands
You can find a detailed description of each command in [RedisBloom - Bloom Filter Command Documentation](https://oss.redislabs.com/redisbloom/Bloom_Commands/).

### `Reserve`
Creates an empty Bloom Filter with a given desired error ratio and initial capacity.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterReserve(string $key, float $errorRate, int $capacity);`

or

`$bloomFilter->reserve(float $errorRate, int $capacity);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- errorRate: (float) probability for false positives. 0.0 < errorRate < 1.0
- capacity: (int) number of entries you intend to add to the filter

**Returns:** (bool) true if the filter was created, otherwise `ResponseException`.

### `Add`
Adds an item to the Bloom Filter, creating the filter if it does not yet exist.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterAdd(string $key, $item);`

or

`$bloomFilter->add($item);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- item: (string|number) scalar value to add

**Returns:** (bool) true if the item was added to the filter, false if the item may have existed previously. 
`ResponseException` if item is not string or number.

### `MultiAdd`
Adds one or more items to the Bloom Filter, creating the filter if it does not yet exist.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterMultiAdd(string $key, ...$items);`

or

`$bloomFilter->multiAdd(...$items);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- items: comma-separated list of (string|number) scalar values to add

**Returns:** (array) of true/false values, indicating if each item (in the position which was inserted) was added to 
the filter or may have existed previously.`ResponseException` if some of the items are not string or number.

### `Insert`
Adds one or more items to the Bloom Filter, creating the filter if it does not yet exist. The difference with `MultiAdd` 
is that you can specify extra optional params for setting error rate, capacity and no creation in case of no filter 
existence.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterInsert(string $key, array $items, array $options = []);`

or

`$bloomFilter->insert(array $items, array $options = []);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- items: (array) of (string|number) scalar values
- options: (array) optional, if specified it can contain up to 3 params:
    * errorRate: (float) if specified indicates the probability for false positives. 0.0 < errorRate < 1.0
    * capacity: (int) if specified set the number of entries you intend to add to the filter
    * noCreate: (bool) if specified and equal to true indicates that the filter should be not created if exists

```
$factory = new RedisBloomFactory();
$client = $factory->createClient();
$options = [
   OptionalParams::CAPACITY => 1000,
   OptionalParams::ERROR => 0.01, 
   OptionalParams::NO_CREATE => true
];

// it will insert 'foo', 'bar' and 18 values to filter 'test-filter' in case it already exists 
// since NO_CREATE = true, otherwise it will send and ResponseException
$client->bloomFilterInsert('test-filter', ['foo', 'bar', 18], $options);

```

**Returns:** (array) of true/false values, indicating if each item (in the position which was inserted) was added to 
the filter or may have existed previously.`ResponseException` if some of the items are not string or number or in case 
we specify `NO_CREATE` = true and the filter does not exists.

### `Exists`
Determines whether an item may exist in the Bloom Filter or not.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterExists(string $key, $item);`

or

`$bloomFilter->exists($item);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- item: (string|number) scalar value to add

**Returns:** (bool) true if the item may exist in the filter, false if either the item doesn't exist in the filter or 
the filter doesn't exist. 

### `MultiExists`
Determines if one or more items may exist in the filter or not.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterMultiExists(string $key, ...$items);`

or

`$bloomFilter->multiExists(...$items);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- items: comma-separated list of (string|number) scalar values to add

**Returns:** (array) of true/false values, indicating if each item (in the position which was inserted) may exist in 
the filter or does not exist. `ResponseException` if some of the items are not string or number.

### `ScanDump`
It iterates through a filter returning a chunk of data in each iteration. The first time this command is called, 
the value of the `iterator` should be 0. This command will return a successive array of `[iterator, data]` until iterator = 0 
and data = '', `[0, '']` to indicate completion.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterScanDump(string $key, int $iterator);`

or

`$bloomFilter->scanDump(int $iterator);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- iterator: (int) iterator value

**Returns:** (array) An array of `[iterator, data]`. The Iterator is passed as input to the next invocation of `ScanDump`. 
If the iterator is 0, it means iteration has completed. The iterator-data pair should also be passed to 
`LoadChunk` when restoring the filter. It throws a `ResponseException` in case `key` doesn't exist

### `LoadChunk`
Restores a filter previously saved using `ScanDump`. This command will overwrite any bloom filter stored under `key`. 
Ensure that the bloom filter will not be modified between invocations.


`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterLoadChunk(string $key, int $iterator, $data);`

or

`$bloomFilter->loadChunk(int $iterator, $data);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- iterator: (int) iterator value
- data: data chunk as returned by `ScanDump`

**Returns:** (bool) true on success. It throws a `ResponseException` in case `key` doesn't exist

### `Copy`
Currently, this command is only available in `BloomFilter` class, not in `RedisBloomClient`.

It copies all data stored in the key specified in the `BloomFilter` class into `key` target, basically it combines 
one `scanDump` with a `loadChunk` on the fly in each iteration until all data are consumed from the BloomFilter object 
`key` source and inserted in the target `key`. 

`$bloomFilter->copy(string $targetFilter);`

**Params:**
- targetFilter: (string) destination filter name

**Returns:** (bool) true on success. It throws a `ResponseException` in case of target `key` doesn't exist or an error or 
a failure happens. In case of error, the command will try to delete the target `key` before throwing the exception.

### `Info`
Returns information about the filter stored in the key.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterInfo(string $key);`

or

`$bloomFilter->info();`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name

**Returns:** (associative array) with the following structure:
```
[
   'Capacity' => 106, // integer
   'Size' => 218, // integer
   'Number of filters' => 1, // integer
   'Number of items inserted' => 30 // integer
]
```

It throws a`ResponseException` if filter key doesn't exist.

Commit message:

updated documentation for EXPANSION option in BF.RESERVE and BF.INSERT commands and some unit tests

docs/BLOOM-FILTER-COMMANDS.md, after:

# `Bloom Filter` Commands
You can execute Bloom Filter commands in two ways:

**With RedisBloomClient**

First, you need to create a RedisBloomClient from RedisBloomFactory, and then execute the command from the client. 
You need to specify the name of the filter, as key param, in each command. You can execute BloomFilter commands on 
different filters (keys) using RedisBloomClient. All BloomFilter commands signatures in RedisBloomClient are prefixed 
with `bloomFilter`, like `bloomFilterAdd` or `bloomFilterMultiExists`.

```
$factory = new RedisBloomFactory();
$client = $factory->createClient();
$client->bloomFilterAdd('filter-key', 'item');
```

**With BloomFilter class**

You can create a BloomFilter object by instantiating it from RedisBloomFactory and then execute all BloomFilter commands
over one filter which is specified as key param when you create the BloomFilter object.

```
$factory = new RedisBloomFactory();
$bloomFilter = $factory->createBloomFilter('filter-key');
$bloomFilter->add('item');
```

Both RedisBloomClient and BloomFilter object can be configured with a specific connection to Redis when they are created by providing
a configuration array to `RedisBloomFactory::createClient(array $config)` or 
`RedisBloomFactory::createBloomFilter(string $filterName, array $config)`, even you can provide a configuration array to
RedisBloomFactory, `RedisBloomFactory(array $config)`, and all clients and BloomFilter objects created by the factory 
will be using that configuration. Please take a look at `examples/factory.php` to know how to provide configuration options.

## Commands
You can find a detailed description of each command in [RedisBloom - Bloom Filter Command Documentation](https://oss.redislabs.com/redisbloom/Bloom_Commands/).

### `Reserve`
Creates an empty Bloom Filter with a given desired error ratio, initial capacity and optional EXPANSION.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterReserve(string $key, float $errorRate, int $capacity);`

or

`$bloomFilter->reserve(float $errorRate, int $capacity);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- errorRate: (float) probability for false positives. 0.0 < errorRate < 1.0
- capacity: (int) number of entries you intend to add to the filter
- options: (array) optional, if specified it can contain up to 3 params:
    * expansion: (int) if a new sub-filter is created, its size will be the size of the  current filter multiplied by `expansion`. Default expansion value is 2. This means each subsequent sub-filter will be twice as large as the previous one.


**Returns:** (bool) true if the filter was created, otherwise `ResponseException`.

### `Add`
Adds an item to the Bloom Filter, creating the filter if it does not yet exist.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterAdd(string $key, $item);`

or

`$bloomFilter->add($item);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- item: (string|number) scalar value to add

**Returns:** (bool) true if the item was added to the filter, false if the item may have existed previously. 
`ResponseException` if item is not string or number.

### `MultiAdd`
Adds one or more items to the Bloom Filter, creating the filter if it does not yet exist.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterMultiAdd(string $key, ...$items);`

or

`$bloomFilter->multiAdd(...$items);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- items: comma-separated list of (string|number) scalar values to add

**Returns:** (array) of true/false values, indicating if each item (in the position which was inserted) was added to 
the filter or may have existed previously.`ResponseException` if some of the items are not string or number.

### `Insert`
Adds one or more items to the Bloom Filter, creating the filter if it does not yet exist. The difference with `MultiAdd` 
is that you can specify extra optional params for setting error rate, capacity, expansion and no creation in case of no 
filter existence.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterInsert(string $key, array $items, array $options = []);`

or

`$bloomFilter->insert(array $items, array $options = []);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- items: (array) of (string|number) scalar values
- options: (array) optional, if specified it can contain up to 3 params:
    * errorRate: (float) if specified indicates the probability for false positives. 0.0 < errorRate < 1.0
    * capacity: (int) if specified set the number of entries you intend to add to the filter
    * noCreate: (bool) if specified and equal to true indicates that the filter should be not created if exists
    * expansion: (int) if a new sub-filter is created, its size will be the size of the  current filter multiplied by `expansion`. Default expansion value is 2. This means each subsequent sub-filter will be twice as large as the previous one.    

```
$factory = new RedisBloomFactory();
$client = $factory->createClient();
$options = [
   OptionalParams::CAPACITY => 1000,
   OptionalParams::ERROR => 0.01, 
   OptionalParams::EXTENSION => 4,
   OptionalParams::NO_CREATE => true
];

// it will insert 'foo', 'bar' and 18 values to filter 'test-filter' in case it already exists 
// since NO_CREATE = true, otherwise it will send and ResponseException
$client->bloomFilterInsert('test-filter', ['foo', 'bar', 18], $options);

```

**Returns:** (array) of true/false values, indicating if each item (in the position which was inserted) was added to 
the filter or may have existed previously.`ResponseException` if some of the items are not string or number or in case 
we specify `NO_CREATE` = true and the filter does not exists.

### `Exists`
Determines whether an item may exist in the Bloom Filter or not.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterExists(string $key, $item);`

or

`$bloomFilter->exists($item);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- item: (string|number) scalar value to add

**Returns:** (bool) true if the item may exist in the filter, false if either the item doesn't exist in the filter or 
the filter doesn't exist. 

### `MultiExists`
Determines if one or more items may exist in the filter or not.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterMultiExists(string $key, ...$items);`

or

`$bloomFilter->multiExists(...$items);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- items: comma-separated list of (string|number) scalar values to add

**Returns:** (array) of true/false values, indicating if each item (in the position which was inserted) may exist in 
the filter or does not exist. `ResponseException` if some of the items are not string or number.

### `ScanDump`
It iterates through a filter returning a chunk of data in each iteration. The first time this command is called, 
the value of the `iterator` should be 0. This command will return a successive array of `[iterator, data]` until iterator = 0 
and data = '', `[0, '']` to indicate completion.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterScanDump(string $key, int $iterator);`

or

`$bloomFilter->scanDump(int $iterator);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- iterator: (int) iterator value

**Returns:** (array) An array of `[iterator, data]`. The Iterator is passed as input to the next invocation of `ScanDump`. 
If the iterator is 0, it means iteration has completed. The iterator-data pair should also be passed to 
`LoadChunk` when restoring the filter. It throws a `ResponseException` in case `key` doesn't exist

### `LoadChunk`
Restores a filter previously saved using `ScanDump`. This command will overwrite any bloom filter stored under `key`. 
Ensure that the bloom filter will not be modified between invocations.


`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterLoadChunk(string $key, int $iterator, $data);`

or

`$bloomFilter->loadChunk(int $iterator, $data);`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name
- iterator: (int) iterator value
- data: data chunk as returned by `ScanDump`

**Returns:** (bool) true on success. It throws a `ResponseException` in case `key` doesn't exist

### `Copy`
Currently, this command is only available in `BloomFilter` class, not in `RedisBloomClient`.

It copies all data stored in the key specified in the `BloomFilter` class into `key` target, basically it combines 
one `scanDump` with a `loadChunk` on the fly in each iteration until all data are consumed from the BloomFilter object 
`key` source and inserted in the target `key`. 

`$bloomFilter->copy(string $targetFilter);`

**Params:**
- targetFilter: (string) destination filter name

**Returns:** (bool) true on success. It throws a `ResponseException` in case of target `key` doesn't exist or an error or 
a failure happens. In case of error, the command will try to delete the target `key` before throwing the exception.

### `Info`
Returns information about the filter stored in the key.

`$redisBloomClient->bloomFilterInfo(string $key);`

or

`$bloomFilter->info();`

**Params:**
- key: (string) filter name

**Returns:** (associative array) with the following structure:
```
[
   'Capacity' => 106, // integer
   'Size' => 218, // integer
   'Number of filters' => 1, // integer
   'Number of items inserted' => 30 // integer
   'eXPANSION RATE' => 4 // integer
]
```

It throws a`ResponseException` if filter key doesn't exist.
